GRPC with PercentAffected (#396)
DataDog/chaos-controller: docs/grpc_disruption/interceptor_algorithm.md

# gRPC Disruption Inceptor

> When the interceptor recognizes a query's endpoint as one which is actively getting disrupted, the interceptor generates a random integer from `0` to `100`, and consults a hasmap for the `PercentToAlteration` mapping. The hashmap is represented as an array of 100 or less items, and provided the random integer, it identifies the disruption to apply to a query. The user cannot sepcify queryPercents for a single endpoint which sum to over `100%`. You can see an example below of a hashmap that does not define all 100% of possible requests below.

Reviewer: Is this still a hashmap in the code?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the interceptor recognizes a query's endpoint as one which is actively getting disrupted, the interceptor generates a random integer from `0` to `100`, and consults a hashmap for the `PercentToAlteration` mapping. The hashmap is represented as an array of 100 or less items, and provided the random integer, it identifies the disruption to apply to a query. The user cannot specify queryPercents for a single endpoint which sum to over `100%`. You can see an example below of a hashmap that does not define all 100% of possible requests below.
```

> When the interceptor recognizes a query's endpoint as one which is actively getting disrupted, the interceptor generates a random integer from `0` to `100`, and consults an array caching the `PercentToAlteration` mapping. Provided the random integer, this hasmap identifies the disruption to apply to a query. The mapping represents user preference the proportion of queries affected by each alteration. The user cannot sepcify queryPercents for a single endpoint which sum to over `100%`. You can see an example below of an array that does not define all 100% of possible requests. You can see the next section for an example of a mapping which only has 25 entires.

Reviewer: Is this still true? I notice this is alternating between mentioning hashmap vs array

Author: oof, yeah. I will call it a hashmap because that's more true to the design, and mention it's an array underneath the hood.

```
spec:
  grpc:
    endpoints:
      - endpoint: /chaos_dogfood.ChaosDogfood/order
        override: "{}"
        query_pct: 5
      - endpoint: /chaos_dogfood.ChaosDogfood/order
        error: NOT_FOUND
        query_pct: 5
      - endpoint: /chaos_dogfood.ChaosDogfood/order
        error: PERMISSION_DENIED
        query_pct: 15
```

For the above specs, the calculated `PercentToAlteration` would look something like:

```
PercentToAlteration {
    0  -> Override: {}
    1  -> Override: {}
    2  -> Override: {}
    3  -> Override: {}
    4  -> Override: {}
    5  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    6  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    7  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    8  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    9  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    10 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    11 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    12 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    13 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    .. -> Error: ...
    22 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    23 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    24 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
}
```

In this case, we would return an Override with empty results for 5% of queries, a `NOT_FOUND` error for 5% of queries, and return `PERMISSION_DENIED` for 15% of queries.

> :warning: If you are a maintainer looking at the source code, the "mapping" is represented as a golang slice with length <= 100.

Reviewer 2: It seems strange to see documentation here aimed at the maintainer. Maybe you can move this explanation somewhere like a comment in your code (which I assume you already have) or maybe a clever way of doing it is referencing the code somewhere here where a comment saying this is located.

```
spec:
  grpc:
    endpoints:
      - endpoint: /chaos_dogfood.ChaosDogfood/order
        error: NOT_FOUND
      - endpoint: /chaos_dogfood.ChaosDogfood/order
        error: PERMISSION_DENIED
```

Rather than constraining the user in how they mix and match this simple configuration style with the explicit `spec.gprc.endpoints[x].queryPercent` field, the current implementation would simply do its best to apply of the configurations.

```
PercentToAlteration {
    0   -> Override: {}
    1   -> Override: {}
    2   -> Override: {}
    3   -> Override: {}
    4   -> Override: {}
    5   -> Override: {}
    6   -> Override: {}
    ..  -> Override: ..
    22  -> Override: {}
    23  -> Override: {}
    24  -> Override: {}
    25  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    26  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    26  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    ..  -> Error: ...
    61  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    62  -> Error: NOT_FOUND
    63  -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    64  -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    65  -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    ..  -> Error: ...
    99  -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
    100 -> Error: PERMISSION_DENIED
}
```

## Design Implications

### Setting 0 as query percentage

> Users should avoid explicitly setting `query_pct: 0`. Because the Kubebuilder infers 0 for omitted `int`s, this configuration is synonymous for the chaos-controller to not setting a `query_pct` at all. This means that the alteration with this `query_pct` setting would actually be applied to the remaining queries that have not yet be claimed by another alteration. There isn't a straight forward way to chaos-controller to discriminate an unset `query_pct` from one explicitly set to `0`, so users may be surprised by inputting the value `0` and receving many of errors with that input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should avoid explicitly setting `query_pct: 0`. Because the Kubebuilder infers 0 for omitted `int`s, this configuration is synonymous for the chaos-controller to not setting a `query_pct` at all. This means that the alteration with this `query_pct` setting would actually be applied to the remaining queries that have not yet be claimed by another alteration. There isn't a straight forward way to chaos-controller to discriminate an unset `query_pct` from one explicitly set to `0`, so users may be surprised by inputting the value `0` and receiving many of errors with that input.
```

"many of errors" could flow more clearly.

What are we hoping to warn people against here? I don't know why anyone would ever explicitly set a query percentage of 0 and think it would never happen, because why even add that alteration then? What's here is perfectly fine, but we can probably also just tell people that `0` is a special value and should expect it to be treated that way
